please welcome amplitude executive VP of
engineering shoddy rostami slack SVP of
engineering platform rukmini ready and
Coda co-founder and CEO shashir marotra
pick the right seat I know
all right hi everyone
it's so fun to be outside for these yeah
it's actually very exciting I was
telling that you know when you're inside
the life is in your face and you don't
see the audience here I can actually see
people it's very exciting
all right so welcome disaster Welcome to
our uh
uh sure to be fun and interesting panel
uh we're going to talk about product and
Engineering uh I think it's a really fun
topic that you know these two roles
often have some built-in tension but I
think we'll have three really
interesting experiences on why it
doesn't have to be that way and why this
can be a really awesome partnership
um so we'll start with introductions and
maybe shoddy you can go first tell
everybody but we already came from and
maybe something people don't know about
you sure hi everybody I'm Shadi I'm
currently I'm SVP of engineering at
amplitude I I was born and raised in
Iran I went to early graduate there then
I left Iran went to Canada
got my to graduate school got my PhD and
then after that I had to decide a lot
like a lot of other students whether I
want to stay in Academia or go to
Industry and I decided no I'm impatient
and I like to build things so I should
go to Industry so I started an engineer
I became an architect and eventually
decided that I want to go to management
track
prior to amplitude I was a VP of engine
power alternate folks and I've been at
amplitude for three and a half years
uh something interesting about me oh
actually I can say one thing because we
were talking about that you have to be
fun you have to get the audience in the
first five minutes and what's fun like
can I say I actually have three
citizenship some Iranian Canadian and
American and my partner is French so if
I want to collect another citizenship I
can marry him and maybe get another
citizenship but I have twin daughters
who are 18 years old that they're girls
and they've all right now left home I'm
supposed to feel bad but I feel good
I don't feel guilty they're they're in
college and they're having fun and I'm
having fun too and they're both sudden
come to science
awesome hi Ricky hi everyone I'm rukmini
my pronouns are she her spp of
engineering slack platform I am also an
immigrant I began my life in India and
moved here 20 plus years ago was an
engineer still an engineer I think I can
count myself as one and uh about over a
decade ago I made the move to management
and like most ICS who have first offered
their management job I went through all
the stages of grief letting that go but
you know I feel like I truly found my
stride
I've been at several Enterprise SAS
companies uh but prior to slack which I
joined in the midst of the pandemic
really scary thing to do be a new
executive where you can't see anyone in
person so you have to be extra enjoyable
on Zoom so I mastered that in the last
couple of years
um interesting facts about me I also
have twins and I can't wait them wait
for them to leave home so I'm jealous of
shoddy's situation and also something
fun I played baseball in India growing
up and there was one time became third
in the entire country what people don't
know is there were only three teams so
nice to meet you all
uh hi everyone uh so I'm fisherman rotra
and I'm the CEO and co-founder of Coda
uh we make an all-in-one DOC for teams
um before starting Coda I was at Google
for a number of years responsible for
the YouTube group and before that I was
at Microsoft for a number of years and
started my career with my first startup
centrata which we started out of school
um and I think in this group I I run
product teams engineering teams and so
on but I think I get to be the product
person of this panel so we'll see how
that goes
um the fun fact about me
um uh I have two daughters as well 16
and 13 and I coach their Lego robotics
team
um they've made World Championships four
out of the last six years which is super
fun
um if you want to know anything about
Legos or blacks have a garage full of
every type of Lego you can possibly
imagine and we've probably built
everything you can think of
um have you chat about that also a great
way to learn about teamwork watching
kids do it
okay so that's a great round of Interest
so we talked a little bit beforehand to
try to divide this up into a few
interesting topic areas before we go to
the topic let me just say one thing
sorry uh you know he's the Prada guy I'm
the engineering and we have to make sure
that we work together we're trying to
find something in common and say oh our
kids have gone to the same elementary
school so we found something in common
so hopefully we won't fight on the stage
I'm not going to referee whatever that
is
the right starting point for a
relationship
um okay so we picked a few different uh
topic areas we'll try to run through
these and leave a little bit of time for
questions that people have other topics
you want us to talk about
um but I thought we'd start with the
basics you have product teams
engineering teams uh we'll get to
behaviors and rituals and so on later
but let's just start with structure how
do you structure product engineering
teams to maximize the chances of that
relationship working and maybe Shadow
you can start sure yeah I can start
actually before nothing I'm gonna say
one thing that is very very important
and close to my mind one of our
important principles that we have
engineers and Engineers own product
experience that sentence basically tells
us that you know engineer is not just
about I just build it to the spec I own
the product experience I'm solving
customer pay I've heard people talk
about the product people think about the
what and why an engineer think about how
I don't agree with that engineers and
products own the whole thing they own
the what why and the how of course
people have different expertise they you
know delegate different things you know
but they own that entire thing together
and and one of the things to basically
make sure that happens in the
organization is set the right structure
to basically set the right set the right
structure so that they can collaborate
they're aligned they're measured the
same way so what we do at actually at
amplitude we follow the model level two
in a box or two in a box with a designer
so I'm I'm head of engineering my
counterpart without Chief product
officer and we own the entire product if
our product is good and selling and
customers are happy it takes the credit
if our product sucks we take the blame
we both own the whole thing and the same
thing goes down in the organization we
have a pillar structure
and in the head of each of these pillars
is a product manager and Engineering
lead as well as a design lead and they
own it together they they're measured
with the same outcome so for example one
of our pillars
amplitude builds product analytics and
we believe product analytics is a team
sport so companies who are using product
analytics needs to collaborate with each
other employees in those companies needs
to collaborate with each other and one
of the area of our focus of our product
is collaboration so that team their
metric is weekly one of their notes are
a metric It's weekly collaborative users
so their goal is to increase that number
but that's integral and of course
they're delivering feature they're doing
slack integration and so on and so forth
to make that happen but at the end
they're measured with that outcome were
they able to move that it's not that oh
we deliver the future and if the metric
didn't move that that doesn't matter you
know you have to go back to the drawing
board figure out how we can improve the
future or what other things that we can
do but but they have the same goal and
they're measured on that code so if you
if you structure the team that they both
own the the same outcome and then they
kind of help them to find the common
ground so they can collaborate because
they both have the stake in it to make
sure that's successful
you know what one I think it is the most
important basic thing to start with
um one
whenever I get asked this question about
where parking Edge teams aren't getting
along it's always the first question you
ask is do the structures actually match
each other and it's not always easy to
do I was thinking about one very early
in my career I was running
um this product team I had an edge
counterpart and the the teams weren't
organized the same way and it's very
natural for the engineering team to want
to organize however the code base is
organized you can basically take the
code files and say I'm just going to put
Engineers on each of them and it's very
natural for a product team to be
organized a different way and one of the
things we ended up doing was he wanted
to reorganize a team we're going to
change code files I said I can't make
the product team match that and we said
all right here's what we're going to do
we're not going to change anything for a
few months and we just took a section of
his whiteboard and his uh and his Cube
and we just drew a few different
structures and said every week we're
just going to watch what's happening and
try to see if we can come up with some
magical way to get them to align and at
some point you know a few months in we
realized actually those two people seem
to work together all the time and we
hadn't really thought about this way of
position that pillar or that metric or
so on but then like that magic answer
emerged and we ended up with a with a
sensible way to align them and then we
rolled it out but I recording I was
going to ask you to talk a little bit
about I mean I assume this is sort of a
truism like get your partner seems align
what what are the cases where it's hard
and what you know what are the cases
where maybe it's not obvious how to do
it yeah I mean
you're really early and you have one
product manager and a lot of Engineers
which a lot of startup space it's just
not practical to have that two in a box
or three in a box and you just have to
get really Scrappy with the way you are
design you know it's a fancy term but
it's the way you organize your teams I
would say you need to
the way to be successful is to remove
all impediments that are in people's way
to collaborate and actually break down
org structures almost pretend like they
don't exist so the way I like you to
think of you can kind of a swim Lane you
can call it a project let me name it
what you want just have a
cross-functional set of people whose
Allegiance is to move a metric forward
for the business a project forward for
the business or alleviate some of your
customers concerns whatever those are
like that's the only way to be
successful
I also find that any organization
structure you put in place will most
likely have to change in a very stable
you know Revenue guaranteed company
probably at least once a year so just
don't get too caught into whatever you
put together you have to be open to
constantly iterating and finding the
best path forward some things we've done
in the past that have helped is if
you're starting out early like doing
Persona based organization right like
who are the personas your product to
start your product is targeting if
they're two different kinds of person
it's just like swarm on those two
personas with Engineers product managers
and designers and go tackle the problem
that's one way of looking at the other
way is like using words like what is it
that you want to be true for your
product like this is the creation part
of your product it's have people swarm
on that
I ideally in an Ideal World what you
know Shadi does describe is my dream I
like to have just one product
counterpart One Design counterpart but
it's just not practical
yeah one one um I think I've seen three
different ways to do it you organize
what I call by mechanism by
um uh by goal or by audience and so
goals often feel like you know metric
I'm trying to move activation trying to
move conversion so on mechanism is I own
this part of the product I own this you
know it could be a part of the code it
could be something else or audiences you
know like for YouTube it was the viewers
and the creators uh you know for for
Coda we end up talking about Publishers
and makers as different audiences
um the uh but I think the magic happens
when somehow all three align and you end
up with you kind of own a set of
mechanisms to achieve a set of goals for
a particular audience but it often
doesn't doesn't happen yeah
maybe I'll push it forward to topic
number two let's see
um developing Partnerships and so you've
got the teams in place you got the map
you figured out is it personas is it
mechanism so on how do you actually make
sure that that two in a box three inbox
actually turns into the right kind of
partnership Brooklyn I let you start um
I always you know the way I think of it
is my first team is my product
counterpod and my design countify
they're my first team I owe allegiance
to them and when I joined slack about a
little over two years ago June of 2020
we don't want to go back there in time
my product counterpart is also just
joined right and we had this meeting on
the first day we sat down we were like
okay here's two execs who never met each
other in the midst of the pandemic
having to solve this large business
problem together and there were three
tenants that developed in our early
conversation one is flow of information
is critical and it's different depending
on your function for example engineering
knows when there's a upcoming there's
something under you don't want to know
potential reliability concern that's
going to come up or this a loss of
talent or you know we're having some
technical architecture that we need to
do that's something information
Engineers have product managers have a
completely different set of information
like what are users thinking what's the
research telling us what are our growth
metrics what does the CEO want right
right so um I think it's really
important to not assume and openly share
information between in this box because
you just find out different things and
you all grow together and you're able to
unblock your organization further that's
the first thing the second thing and the
most important thing that started with a
shared view of reality
do we all agree that the state of things
the way they are today
are true
because most of the misunderstandings I
notice is when people believe things are
not what they seem so they're like
Engineers you ask them like everything
is going great I'm shipping five times a
day it couldn't be more awesome and the
product manager is like nobody's using
our product right so getting together
and sitting through what's your shared
view of reality do you agree that the
State of Affairs organizationally
product wise growth wise business-wise
you're aligned and finally I think to
what Shadi said in the beginning shared
success you are measured for the same
outcome you cannot motivate an
organization with different outcomes
that's just a recipe for disaster so I
personally believe in the same like have
okrs or whatever whatever you use
whatever mechanism you use to measure it
has to be the same for engineering
product and Design
maybe I'll share one
um actually let me just ask here who
raise your hand if you identify more
with the engineering Persona you are an
engineer you came from that background
okay how about people who identify more
with the product persona
oh interesting
okay well that's that's a higher
percentage than most teams have I'd say
um so I'll tell you one story I I end up
telling very often by the way if I had
to list the most common question I'll
get asked by a product manager looking
for advice it is very related to this
topic and usually it frames something
like my engineer won't listen to me
um and you know it comes lots of
different ways and I'll often ask them
did they ever listen to you and
sometimes the answer is no they didn't
but often the answer is no they did they
used to listen to me but now they don't
listen to me anymore and my guess is
many of you have helped that at one
point in your career or or the other and
um I like to start and then maybe this
is not going to be popular with some of
the product folks here but I like to
start with an observation which is if
your team I'll ask the product manager
who says my Engineers will listen to me
say well imagine for a moment that the
engineers weren't there
what would you have to do and they'd say
well I have nothing to do actually it's
a it's kind of the nature of the job I
say well let's picture the other way
around imagine the engineers were there
and the product person wasn't there what
would they do I said well they may not
had exactly the right way but they would
move
so the first thing to recognize in any
relationship for the product manager is
the product manager is optional in the
relationship no product manager likes
hearing this but I think it's very
important for every product manager to
realize that you are optional
I think the product manager engineering
relationships get born out of a sequence
of
of partnership stages and sometimes I
think it's four stages and sometimes
they think it happens in it can happen
in 30 seconds it can happen in 30
minutes it can happen in 30 days it can
happen in in multiple years it can never
happen but every PM starts out as what I
call the Note Taker and your job is hey
Mr Mrs engineer the uh
um amazing work you're doing how about I
take on the burden of I'll write down
everything we're doing and I'll tell
everybody about it I'll write the
meeting notes I'll write the brief I'll
write all the things don't worry I'm
only going to write down what you want
to work on at some point that product
manager evolves to being
um the broadcaster they say hey I'm not
only going to write it down I'll go tell
everybody about it I'll go tell the
customer about it I'll go tell the CEO
about it I'll go tell
um our marketing counterparts about it
I'll go tell it but don't worry I'm
going to tell them exactly what you want
to do at some point they become the
collaborator and they get invited to the
discussion of what should we actually do
and at some point they become uh what
what they earn the right to be leader
and the engineer says actually I'll wait
a little bit and hear your your opinion
and we'll we'll let you decide many
product managers come in assuming they
start there they assume they've got this
Viewpoint and that's that that's their
Fiat their de facto position and my view
is that's earned and you have to work
your way through it and if you find
yourself in the position of my
engineering listen to me usually that
means you lost trust somewhere in that
way and there's sort of two real points
out as lesson one is trust is built
solely and it's not actually I have a
very similar story for the designer who
says the PM will listen to him the
marketer says the sales person won't
listen to them you know the trust is
built slowly in stages but the other one
is every role has a skill that becomes
your permission for the conversation and
I'll often ask PMs and they'll say I
don't want to be the glorified Note
Taker and I'll say are you crazy being a
note taker that's the whole point you
get to you get to be the one that
synthesizes what everybody else is
saying in a way that they feel like okay
you properly represented what mean if
you can do that for your engineer then
they believe you can do that for the
customer they believe you can do that
for the user that actually is in a
demeaning role at all that's you that's
your point that's the reason you're in
the conversations I do a great job of it
because that's how you're going to work
your way through it so anyways that's
been my typical way to coach PM through
that hard question yeah that's great I
actually as a person when I was growing
up when I was in high school I was a
competitive programmer and I was all
about winning and you know going and you
know come in competition and one other
thing that is important as become an
engineer is still winning I want to
build some product that is winning the
space is competitive and if I feel like
that the PM is helping me win then the
trust is built right whether that how he
he she helps me win is it with going and
you know educating or enabling the GTM
so they can sell the product better or
talking helping me find the right
customer to talk to or compiling that
data and telling me if that's how the
trust is built is he or she making me
become more successful I think that's
what's important and as we create that
that is very important and one thing
that I always I make a joke about is if
I go to an engineer and say why did you
build this ugly product and they tell me
because the designer told me because the
PM told me I say wrong answer but if
they tell me because I thought it's
going to be pretty but it turned out to
be ugly that's okay we all make mistakes
and we are learning from that but if I
feel like that you know she shares how
can we become successful and you know
win I will definitely trust him more and
you know that's very important the back
to Shared success it is totally about
shared success and I think you know you
made a great point about building trust
and I'm a huge fan of brene brown and
she talks about it's like a jar of
marbles like when you give someone your
trust you give a jar of marbles and
every time an action you perform that
takes away the trust you you know you
have your marbles come out so I
sometimes especially in like roles when
you're leading organizations I believe
you have to give the trust up front I
think that's that's an important
distinction from early in my career to
later in my career like you trust up
front and then you believe in it and you
you dedicate your time and effort to
make a partnership work for example when
I started with my product counterpart
and I was sharing this with you all
earlier we both were like okay how are
we going to navigate this pandemic and
zoom and remote work and we're like
let's meet 15 minutes a day and share
information and if we run out we'll stop
he was my last meeting yesterday two and
a half years in right we haven't run out
of topics so we've we're both busy
people we explicitly made time to Foster
and develop that relationship and there
have been highs and lows and mistakes
but we're in this together I think is a
really important new answer I'm curious
what are I love the Marvel's analogy
what are the what are some good examples
of a surprising Marble deposit of like
hey you've like you accumulated more
than you might have thought or a case
where you know people
you know Drew too many marbles or what
are the what are the
I can I can actually give a specific
example where I was the person who took
the marbles out of the jar to my product
counterpart a shame on me I actually was
like you know we were not on time like
you know most engineering teams trying
to ship something and the CEO called me
in many years ago and he was like why is
this not on time and I was like this is
what I'm gonna do this is my plan I just
went away and then I came back the next
day and I presented him a whole plan on
how I'm going to get saved the day like
engineering is going to come in we're
going to save the day and then my co
looks at my product counterparts so that
was me taking the marble out and he says
Manfred what do you think and he's like
yeah totally in with rafini's plan I was
like him putting the marble back I
didn't deserve that treatment that day
and it's then when I had this moment
like I was being I had a singles you
know track mind I looked at this as an
engineering problem this was several
years ago but that was a growth
development for me and he was
magnanimous with me in that moment so I
always keep going back to that example
one of the interesting when you see
those parts and partner this is not just
to a parking Edge every apartment I
think the 15 minute a day thing is such
an interesting ritual one of the things
I'll ask about or you'll you'll notice
in the good Partnerships is the boundary
between the rolls is very thin and
there's no you know hey uh that's a
product problem that's an engineering
problem those types of things go away
people find their natural strengths and
so it's like implied in some
conversation of course you'll do this
but it would you know I'm not gonna do
it and not tell you about it or so I
think that's a I think that's a very
common marble withdrawal yes hey drawing
too hard a line yeah exactly and as
Engineers you know as you said they're
all the Glades or things are not
happening and when the the Prada
counterpart and say okay let's sit down
and let's look at the scope let's see if
you can reduce the scope or figure out
what is critical here to go that's
really coming and putting that
partnership hat on that now we have to
prioritize even though you told me
you're going to deliver all of them and
you didn't but now we are in this game
together and let's let's figure out how
we can figure out what is the if we can
come up with an MVP here that there is a
still viable there's still a view in
here so let's figure out that scope
that's that's where you're building that
relationship or filling up that jar that
I I'm here take you know taking care of
you and maybe take the other voice for
the product side and I think marble
withdrawals use your analogy I really
like it the you know I think that
um the best product managers the easiest
way to deposit marbles those I think two
things come to mind one is and it comes
back to note takers is does that person
really synthesize and understand what
everybody thinks it's like a key part
and it's not really about just
understand the customers understand the
engineer to understand the counterpart
understand the CEO and let's understand
all of it
um I think that you know an easy way to
withdraw or or add a marble is is to not
understand well you know to say
something that isn't true and hey this
is what the customer is going to say and
actually isn't what they're going to say
or what they said if it's facts the
other one I think is great
um and this is not necessarily just
product or engineering I think it's both
I think that Partnerships develop a
sense of uh how to frame problems and I
think the
I think that shared sense of reality is
a really important starting point and
then there's a step of like picking the
right solution but in the in between
there's that frame process and you know
I had an old boss that used to tell me
every decision goes through wallow frame
proposed closed it's like four stages of
how to think about things and most
people you know they they skip the wall
of phase and why where's our shared
sense of reality they jump to well
here's a solution and they miss the how
do we really think about this problem
what's the most what's the most
Discerning the dimension of this what
are the actual options
um do we do we understand them well and
I think you know great product managers
are really good at helping a team get to
that right frame
um across whatever the dimensions are
that's what the customer might think is
what the technical considerations are
whatever it might be actually I want to
add something on that and it's not about
product management necessarily it's
about kind of leadership also being an
influencer right it's very important I
remember many years ago I Was An
Architect and my boss came to me and
said sure do you have a hard job I said
why why do you think what jobs are he
said because you have to basically
influence everybody and you don't have
positional power so how do you get them
to you know you're coming up with a
design you're not their boss their bonus
is not tied to that or whatever how do
you inspire people to follow what you're
saying and you know the way that I did
and actually his suggestion is that ask
the right question when you ask the
right question people come up with that
answer and when people come up with the
answer they're vested relax their idea
and they're vested to implement that I
think that applies to a good product
manager if you're a good product manager
when you ask the right question rather
than coming and telling in general you
need to do ABCD and why are you too late
doing ABCD and you're making me look bad
ask the right question people when
people come up with that answer they're
vested in basically driving that and
making sure that happens
okay we'll jump to topic number three
so uh this is a topic that I really love
to talk about so we set up our teams
right we've gotten the Partnerships
right and now we need to work on our
rituals and behaviors and and I think
the
um my favorite quote on this topic comes
from an old friend of mine uh Ben Gordon
if people don't know Bing Bings a
um he was one of the founders of
Electronic Arts he's uh now a famous
investor Amazon Zynga many other great
companies
um I had the pleasure of sitting on a
board with Bing and he used his line a
lot that really stuck with me he said
great companies a very small list of
golden rituals and golden rituals have
three characteristics uh number one
they're named uh number two every
employee knows them by their first
Friday and number three uh they're
templated and you know Bing always
rattles off his list Amazon has six
pagers Google has okr Salesforce does V2
mom and those are sort of company level
rituals there's also many that you can
sort of apply at the team level at the
partnership level uh and so on and I
found that some of these are are fairly
surprising
um uh actually it's a small plug I'm
actually writing a book on the topic
which was a great teams um so I gotten a
chance to learn about different uh
examples and we talked about a few of
them uh before joining here so I wanted
to spend some of our time on the great
rituals between product engineering
teams let's go first
I can just share a few like it's like we
have something called the Monday meeting
and the Monday meeting is basically
where we review our okrs together but
week one my first day I show up and I'm
like what is this meeting and it's like
a cross-function group and it was a part
of my onboarding documentation everybody
understands what it it's templatized we
know what to expect is 25 minutes and
it's the most efficient use of time I
have something else that is really
quirky and local so that's more like at
a pde level of slack leadership there's
another one that's local and it's
specific to platform it's called the
hugging elephants
where we actually hug the elephant in
the room that means no topics off limits
and it's for a close group of like
cross-function leaders on platform we
get together it's called hugging the
elephants meeting and we all hunt we
talk about we usually don't come with an
agenda for that meeting the topic is to
basically acknowledge the presence of
said elephant in the room and just talk
about it and that's so important because
we've been able to Wade through
discomfort and we usually don't spend a
lot of Cycles
missile oh gosh I don't know I love to
speak about the elephant in public I I
think I shouldn't have ratted it out but
uh you know examples interpersonal
conflicts on teams or like maybe
confidence in a certain function that
you can't just talk about externally but
you want to navigate or like what's the
latest feedback how are people feeling
how are we feeling about what we're
building together have like because
leadership is so lonely right and to
have a group of people you can have
these really hard conversations with has
been absolutely invaluable and the third
thing I would say is like with any uh
any team I think it's if you're familiar
with the water line
there's all these activities and rituals
which are great but I think where real
team development happens it's called
below the water line dipping below the
water line like whether it's an off-site
you planned or an activity or a
volunteer something some experience uh
we have an experience where we created
our team values together we said what
are our pde team values what is the
product value you're going to bring like
I said one of the architecture values
we'll bring is Will relentlessly evolve
uh our team values Equity is Excellence
like we will not take opportunities away
from anyone while building this product
things like that those are like below
the water line activities that and
rituals that can actually bring the
group together and you have to do it
repeatedly you can't just do it once and
expect because trust you know the jar of
marbles like it keeps eroding and you
have to fill it back in but these are
like three examples that I think have
transformed the way I work and then I
really appreciate
yeah one of the things that we do at
amplitude is that it's a very simple one
of course I think a lot of you are doing
that is we have a PD all hands it's not
engineering her hands it's not product
all hands the product development all
hands and one of the important ritual
there is recognition recognizing people
who are basically showing our values and
the way it happened and people are
nominating each other and a lot of time
you will see the nomination a product
person is nominantly an engineering
engineered nominating that that are
exhibiting the values that are important
for us that basically creates that
camaraderie that you know I'm being seen
all of the work I've done people are
seeing what what are contributing that
so that's I really love that how do they
do it they call they submit it and yeah
you should use a slack channel for that
yeah they actually have a thread called
awesome sauce time which is a thread of
like everything it's called the awesome
sauce time on Thursdays it's a thread
it's very simple try it out and you can
do the same ritual online for the world
to see yes exactly there's a slack
commercial here yeah
just so you know that Engineers can't
sell I'll tell you I interviewed one
company where the CEO agreed to
whichever things were submitted for the
recognition
he would read them out but in a
different he could do accents really
well but in a different accent for each
person and it was and it's just
hilarious I think it can run out in
different accents yes another one that's
going back to getting the the shared
gold we have this quarterly product
reviews the engineering design products
of each of these peeler leads they come
and they say okay how did we do what was
the Retro and what are our goal that we
are setting for this quarter and this is
how we're expecting to move our metrics
based on all of these features we call
them bets the future and then that's
that we're delivering and then we do a
weekly you know half an hour like you're
25 minutes half an hour just reviewing
the pets how we are moving the best and
actually people who are presenting to
the leadership that they're taking turns
not always the product manager who's
coming and telling you their metrics are
moving or not
once the problem one week the product
manager comes and shows how our metrics
are moving the next week the engineers
come and show how our metrics when the
other designer is coming and showing how
our metrics are moving but that gets the
ritual and also people know what's
happening in the other areas because you
know you might be very focused in your
own area but I think it's very important
that you see the common threads and you
see that what's happening
cross-functionally that's that's also
very good and then our favorite thing is
you know is hackathon when you do
hackathon and product manager for a week
long you know people forget about your
day-to-day stuff now you can go and
solve any problem that you want so it's
a week-long ritual at amplitude and we
have product manager that sometimes they
code because they have been an engineer
before and you know designers who are
coming up and there's so much energy in
that when people are actually that
builds a lot of camaraderie that's
that's I think that's a team building
event and and they call and everybody
gets excited to win and whatever and we
actually get our customer who come and
actually we have a customer choice about
that people are coming and seeing what
are the works that people are doing so
these are some of the reasons I love the
hackathon when I we do
um I have this love hate relationship
with hackathons at YouTube
um it ended up becoming very
unsuccessful oh the hackathons became
almost uh we would we'd build these
things and then we wouldn't ship them
and people felt very upset because they
they thought the goal was to ship so I
Coda our hackathons are a very simple
rule defaulted you're not allowed to
ship
um and it's amazingly like freeing you
can work on whatever you like whatever
you're going to build take a grade do a
great write-up make a great video throw
it away and it and it actually you would
think it's reverse because of Any
hackathons or let's go ship something
new but what it allows allow people to
take risks allow people to work in areas
they're not comfortable in you know I
would never let the PM write the code in
this thing but just hackathon it's okay
and we're going to work in this other
space and you don't have to worry about
you know some team has already tried it
or not doesn't matter we're gonna throw
it away anyway and we do a similar thing
if we show it to customers and and get
feedback but if the the throw it away
was a very controversial
Rule and not what most hackathons do
I'll share our our uh golden ritual if
you were to pick any employee Coda and
ask them on their first Friday what the
most iconic ritual of the company is
they would talk about this thing we do
called Dory pulse and it's a pretty
simple idea but it's sort of our secret
to driving collaboration running great
meetings kind of solves many different
problems at once
um it's a the basic way it works is uh
you know in many companies you'll have a
meeting and then people will be a
write-up and people will ask questions
and they'll sort of blurt them out or
there's a long list of comments in the
sort of right hand rail of a document
and you kind of go through those in
order and none of those things actually
feel that good and so we'll do we call
it Dorian pulse the way it works is
um the Dory is a list of questions so
rather than put them right rather than
raising your hands or putting them in
comments you put them in this table and
there's a little upvote download buttons
very simple Dory is named after the fish
you asked all the questions
um and you vote them up and down and you
leave the meeting and you say we didn't
get to talk about everything but we
talked about everything with The Re-Up
votes so you sort of went through the
most important things and it certainly
paired with something we do called pulse
impulse by far the most important is we
ask everybody to write you respond you
say here's what I think about this
discussion this topic this meeting
whatever it is and our way of doing it
is everybody else's responses are hidden
until everybody's done
um and so you come in you say it could
be should we ship this feature should we
hire this person should we buy this
company should we
um should we launch in this market
whatever it might be you have to go on
the record I think yes or no or one to
five whatever it might be and you write
and you say this is this is how I feel
about it it has a bunch of impacts I
mean obviously one is it's way more
efficient I'm sure everybody's been in a
meeting where you go around the room and
you hear what everybody thinks and it
takes forever
um it also the most importantly removes
all the group think so you know when you
go around the room it's like first
person says yes second person says yes
third person says yes fourth person's
kind of stuck yeah you kind of have to
say yes now all of a sudden people can
can talk about it but probably the most
important thing it does is it it brings
out perspective perspectives and ideas
from people who would often not get a
chance to speak they you know in many
companies and organizations you know the
loudest voice the highest paid person
the whatever whatever the whatever the
structure is ends up dominating a
meeting so that's our uh Dory pulses are
golden ritual
um before we turn back to all of you for
a question if you have questions or mics
um feel free to ask anything you'd like
um but I thought we could uh wrap up on
our side with maybe one thing everybody
should take away you know something we
talked about or something that maybe we
didn't talk about I would say just
embrace your one team you are one team
and that I just embed that within your
organization it's and model that
behavior of your leaders because the
organization is going to look they look
to you and they'll do exactly how you
represent yourself so please model it
and just re-re iterate it and live it I
think that Mantra of your VR1 team has
been very helpful so I hope that's your
takeaway today
I feel like I'm gonna be refusing I'm
not original but I'm gonna go say
similar things you know as I've been
saying you you are in it together you're
winning together you're losing together
having that mindset and set the goals
and go win it you can all do that go
with that positive attitude and be
together and you can win and be that one
team and to make it happen
since the room had more product and
Engineering I'll I will
um
I'll speak directly to the product
managers here and say if there's one
thing you remember remember you're
optional in that partnership and I think
it will help you solve many problems and
I don't mean that in a demeaning way I
don't mean that in a you shouldn't want
to be a product manager it's a very uh
important and uh impactful role
um but the the role is built off of
being able to build trust I think being
able to go from Note Taker to broadcast
or collaborator leader is a is a step
that I've just found that to be the most
impactful advice I can give product
managers
okay we have a few uh minutes for
questions
and if people don't have questions okay
go ahead
I think you can come to the mic
hi I'm Justin from Sati one of the
biggest conflicts we see is
predicting when software can be finished
right
and that's the conflict so any comments
on how to deal with
estimation how to deal with talking to
customers and Engineers I'm a product
manager so how do I manage all of that
around estimate
if it were predictable to build software
we wouldn't all have jobs
um but I think you just have to build
Frameworks something I've done in the
past that's been really helpful this
comes back to the shared view of reality
is actually coming up with a custom
scale for how important something is I
it's not about how much you can build I
think most teams and end up with a trap
of building too many things at the same
time
I think the one thing you can control is
focus less dilution more Focus that is
the key to success if so and how do you
all come up come to the same page on
that I would say build a metric or
whatever works for you like is it a
revenue opportunity is it technical debt
get everybody in the room together rate
that scale and use that scale to stack
rank your initiatives and then cut cut
and cut again I don't think any engineer
wants to like they're purposefully
delaying you it's just that if you talk
to most ICS they end up with multiple
things on their plate every day and you
know we were joking with the Dilbert
cartoon earlier where the product
manager is like what's the story with
user stories like give me all my stories
or else right so I would say less
dilution more Focus you can come
together as one team and choose what you
prioritize and that's the way you can
drive to more predictability I wish
there was something like more
predictable software but yeah yeah what
no I don't have magic answer one thing
that I can say one of the reasons that
Engineers are not able to deliver on
time is because they have to context to
each a lot they move from one to the
other one oh there is this deal they'll
have to be closing and we need to do
that and there's another window and you
know people take it you know people
people really want to win but there's a
big cause of with this context switching
so you are as a product manager you are
the one that can really figure out okay
is this the right time is this still
gonna be gone away if you do it in three
weeks later or is it really that
necessary create that space so the team
can operate the best but again as as you
said it's about prioritization and there
are a lot of time that you have to go
back and saying what is the right scope
maybe we we try to bowl the ocean and
let's let's figure out what is the mdp
still it needs to be viable I always say
there's a v in mdp so make sure that
you're building something that is viable
but go and figure out the right scope
but create that space so people can work
efficiently and effectively
you know I um my short answer question
is it's very important when you ask the
question so if you ask a question too
early be ready to be disappointed if you
ask them too late it's irrelevant
um I remember you know I started my
career in the days when software was
shipped on CDs
and in those days estimation really
mattered and we would sit down and
everybody ran a waterfall process and
you know at Microsoft there was you know
almost a third of the time was left to
test and so there's like long period
because once you ship the CD wasn't
coming back we all now live in this new
world for all it's after where that none
of that's true anymore right there is no
you know release to manufacturing moment
and so on many of us ship every day
um and in some ways that's good because
we we can like ship very fast it makes
that question really really hard because
when is this going to be ready I can no
longer just say like you know the trains
leaving you know on this day you're in
or you're out and you know I can kind of
work our way through it and so we kind
of lost a tool I I find most times when
people ask for estimates and are unhappy
with themselves I mean there's some
things about you know as a product
manager if you have an estimate how do
you make sure the engineer hits it make
sure they have enough Focus make sure
you get the scope clear make it those
are all really important but we've all
had that moment where you know we asked
the question they said there was going
to be two months of work and it ended up
being eight
um and why was that and in my experience
that usually happens because you asked a
question at the wrong time you didn't
actually know what you were building you
didn't you know that person wasn't you
know the great Engineers are obviously
very good at us at like having some
sense of complexity and time estimation
is one way to say that but you know
they're very good at the this is about
how hard this will be
um and you can as you know before in the
partnership you'll learn the body
language of like you said it was going
to be hard but I saw you kind of you
know look sideways it probably means
it's going to be even harder or you know
you think it's going to be but I find
um and and shoddy mentioned something
earlier about hackathons I I think that
one of the tools that P M's don't use
often enough is hey I'm not you're
giving me the super wide estimate and I
don't really know what that means how
about we go take three days a week what
one day and we're just gonna we're gonna
throw away whatever we build but we're
gonna spend our time eliminating the
risks and that we're going to build a
bunch of stuff we're gonna we're gonna
throw it away hackathons are a fantastic
way of doing it and at the end of that
we're gonna have a much better sense of
how hard it is and how it works and so
on and then you ask the question because
you asked the question the wrong time
you're going to be disappointed in the
answer and we can't use a ship vehicle
as the way to ask that anymore I just
wanted to say prototype the path to
production that is literally that should
be a mantra like scope it out then you
know the complexity and you get a much
better estimate
we're right at a time but it sounds like
we have one more question so I think he
got to the we'll stick around after but
we'll take one more and then we'll go
and I'll see about uh glorified note
thinking uh
the other side of that is is the
customer side right times like product
managers go and talk to customers gather
other requirement and they explain it to
engineers and and there are issues in
our Engineers we've I find it tough to
convince Engineers to get on call with
customers the question is how important
is for engineers to talk to customers
directly uh for the job Yes actually I'm
gonna talk about that because that's one
of my most important thing I have said
this this go rule organ I haven't been
completely successful I have to admit
but I want issue engineer to get on a
customer call once a week
uh it's a it's a big hag you know be
hack because if they get on a customer
call they understand because as I said
one of our values is owning the product
experience do you understand why they're
building it what is the problem that
they're solving so and and engineers
make trade of so many trade-offs while
they're building that and having that
perspective helps them a lot and and
actually we don't develop a feature
unless we have a customer development
partner because we don't want to develop
in vacuum if they're nobody interested
in developing with us we shouldn't be in
building it and I think that's important
that you get that but at the same time
you have to make sure that you're not
biasing all of your decision on One
customer so you have to be thinking
about okay I need to move the metrics
and I need to be seeing it across the
board what is happening but I I think
this is so important to get engineered
on customer calls because the whole
point of them being that is the solving
customer paying they need to know who's
explain their solving
agreed customer empathy for the win yeah
we're short on time so I'll give quick
quick tips on it
support and customer calls you know go
man in the support queue is as as
important the um the angry customer the
frustrated customer so on is as
important as the dreamy customer that
your sales team is working on so I think
that's very important and the other
thing I was going to say is we're in a
different world and gong is your friend
if you guys don't if you don't gong or
it's equivalents there's a few others
out there we use gong
um uh you don't necessarily need to
actually go on the call you just need to
watch the video and that can be very
impactful I do have one more we run we
did one one of our rituals we combined
what was normally a stats meeting we
call our metrics meeting and we now call
it stats and stories SNS is what it's
called and it's very simple it's you
know it's an hour long every two weeks
and the data team goes through all the
metrics and the research and so on and
then when we have a half hour of
customer stories and many of those will
watch phone calls where we'll go through
uh we'll go through uh support tickets
um but you know everybody can come to
that and then one up one positive we
watch it together so we all can have a
chance at a shared conversation of what
do we all take away uh from that but
those are some some hacks for making
sure everybody in the company but
especially Engineers have some empathy
for what the customer's experiencing
I really want to Echo the gong team we
actually have sometimes a Gong lunch
time people are sitting in a room and
eating the lunch and watching and then
discuss about that this is so valuable
okay we're over time uh and and getting
my my signal there thank you very much
for attending for the great questions if
you have any other questions or thoughts
we'll we'll stick around a little bit
afterwards and have a great time at
sester thanks everyone thanks everybody
[Applause]